Michael: Ah, it's good that you're here, Moot, your next-
Moot: <Throws a hat at him>
Michael: What the hell are you... wait, this is...
Moot: <Crosses his arms>
Michael: ...Where did you get the Commander's hat?
Moot: <Points toward the ocean>
Michael: I can only assume from your attitude that he was alive when you found him? Unfortunate. The cat is out of the bag, then.
Moot: <Narrows eyes and steps toward Michael>
Michael: Now just wait a second and think about it. You know as well as I that the First Lords aren't fit to rule over anyone. P.I.R.A.T.E.S. has done their job for them for the last 70 years! The people are ready for a revolution. All they need is an excuse!
Michael: P.I.R.A.T.E.S. is not only giving them that, but also an alternative that they actually want! When P.I.R.A.T.E.S. saves them from this 'government threat,' they'll beg us to lead them! It's what they want!
Moot: <Gnashes teeth and punches Michael>
Michael: You barbarian! What's wrong with P.I.R.A.T.E.S. giving the people what they want?
Ivan: What they want?! You sure about that? You think they want to be lied to?
Michael: Then the First Lords are a better choice?!
Ivan: As a matter of fact, yeah. They didn't lie their way to where they are, and they didn't release a huge sea monster threat on the world!
Michael: But people will think they did!
Checkers: And you think reality is just perspective? You idiot, something doesn't need to be known in order to be true. Even if history says P.I.R.A.T.E.S. saved the world, the fact remains that they didn't. Eventually, that lie will crumble.
Michael: What the hell are you talking about?! You believe anything anyone's ever told you!
Checkers: Only until there's irrefutable evidence to the contrary.
Michael: That's why there won't be evidence!
Ivan: You fool. Why did P.I.R.A.T.E.S. become popular in the first place? The people loved us because they WERE us. The moment you try to set yourselves above the people, P.I.R.A.T.E.S. will just be another group of politicians trying to control the world.
Michael: So anarchy is your answer?
Farthing: Of course not, but P.I.R.A.T.E.S isn't either. Doesn't P.I.R.A.T.E.S exist to step in where the government can't? We don't have any business managing other people's lives.
Michael: ...
Moot: <Turns to a nearby table and begins to write>
Michael: Then what do you plan to do? Leave the organization?
Moot: <Finishes writing and hands Michael the paper>
Michael: ...What?! You can't be serious! 'Come clean to the government?' 'Take out the source of the sea monsters?'
Moot: <Nods>
Michael: ...Fine. I'll tell you what you want to know. I'll even give you the evidence you need. But when you set sail for your suicide mission, I'm going into hiding. I don't have any plans of being a martyr.
Moot: <Nods>
Michael: First of all, here's the letter from my superiors giving me my orders. That should be all the evidence the government needs. As for the source of these sea monsters...
Moot: <...>
Michael: All the sea monsters spawn from a 'queen.' P.I.R.A.T.E.S. hatched it from an egg and released it inside Phillip's Cave. It should still be there. Take out the queen, and the other sea monsters won't live to see the next day.
Farthing: Where in the world would P.I.R.A.T.E.S. get an egg like that?
Michael: From you, actually. We found it in the cargo you recovered on your first mission.
Moot: <...>
Michael: Moot, be careful. I still think P.I.R.A.T.E.S. could have done a better job of ruling the world, but maybe it's not the job they're meant to have. I don't think we'll see each other again, but if the government ever stops looking for me, I hope our paths cross.